# /pages/build-to-bond @390
title: Build to Bond – Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 9179
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 21px
type p: 14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type .rd-lbl: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Impact
/
Build to Bond
OUR PRISON PROGRAMME
a bike built inside. a bond that goes home.
Build to Bond is a six-week bamboo bike-building course inside prison workshops. Makers learn real manufacturing skills, earn a recognised qualification — and finish by giving the bike they built to their own child on family visit day.
Run it in your prison →
Back the mission
90%
course completion
BBC PROGRAMME RECORDS
Level 2
OCN — Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing
OCN LONDON ACCREDITED
26%
measured rise in Maker confidence
PROGRAMME EVALUATION
4
active prison sites
WITH HMPPS
INSIDE THE WORKSHOP
real manufacturing, taught by hand.
Inside a working prison workshop, small cohorts of Makers measure, mitre and bond bamboo frames by hand — the same craft we've taught in our London workshop since 2012. Sessions build real skills: precision marking-out, jig setup, structural bonding, finishing and quality checks.
Along the way, each Maker builds a portfolio of work and earns an OCN Level 2 in Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing — a recognised qualification, earned hands-on.
WHY IT WORKS
the bike is for their child. that's the point.
The finished build is a child's balance bike. On family visit day, the Maker hands it over themselves — the first thing many have ever made, given to the person who matters most.
Ministry of Justice research shows that people in prison who maintain family ties are 39% less likely to reoffend (Lord Farmer Review, 2017). And with just 20% of prison-leavers in work six weeks after release nationally (MoJ, 2025), the skills matter as much as the bond. Build to Bond is built around that evidence: a six-week course where the skills are real, the qualification is recognised, and the finish line is a stronger family bond.
The bike was the first thing I ever made with my own hands. When my daughter rode it on family visit day, I felt like a dad again.
— A BUILD TO BOND MAKER
HOW IT WORKS
six weeks, start to handover.
enrol
Makers join through the prison's workshops or education team. No prior experience needed.
build
Six weekly sessions in the workshop: frame layout, mitring, structural bonding and finishing — real manufacturing, taught by hand.
accredit
Portfolio work towards an OCN Level 2 in Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing — a recognised qualification.
family visit day
The finished balance bike is presented by the Maker to their own child — and goes home with them.
Watching the pride on a father's face when he presents a bike he built himself to his child — that is what rehabilitation looks like.
— SALLY ALLSOPP, INDUSTRIES MANAGER
WHERE WE WORK
live now — and growing.
Live delivery at HMP Lowdham Grange, HMP Foston Hall, HMP Lindholme and HMYOI Feltham — with a self-delivery model that trains staff and peer instructors to run the workshop.
HMP Lowdham Grange · HMP Foston Hall · HMP Lindholme · HMYOI Feltham
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH HM PRISON & PROBATION SERVICE
THE FULL STORY
When one Maker received a balance-bike kit for his toddler, the workshop went quiet — then everyone wanted to build one.
How a six-week bamboo-bike course is rebuilding family ties from inside prison — the full story.
Build to Bond
Read the full story
→
BRING IT TO YOUR SITE
bring build to bond to your prison.
A one-time setup, your staff trained to deliver, and repeatable cohorts that end with a bike going home. Commissioners, funders and education providers — we'd like to talk.
For prisons & commissioners →
Fund a cohort
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025