# /pages/prisons @390
title: For Prisons & Commissioners – Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 10672
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 18px,21px
type p: 14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Impact
/
For prisons
FOR PRISONS & COMMISSIONERS
run build to bond in your prison.
An OCN Level 2 accredited manufacturing course, delivered in your workshops by your staff — trained by us. One setup, repeatable cohorts, no ongoing fees.
Start a conversation →
See the programme
90%
course completion — BBC programme records
OCN Level 2
Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing
Self-delivery
your staff, trained by us — no ongoing fees
6 Makers
per cohort — six weeks, 18 hours a week
THE MODEL
self-delivery: we set up, we train, you run it.
Nationally, just 20% of prison-leavers are in work six weeks after release, and the proven reoffending rate is almost 30% (MoJ, 2024–25). Practical, accredited skills change those odds. Built for prison industries and education teams: we install the workshop, train your staff to deliver the course, and support your first cohorts — then the capability stays in-house.
scope
A site visit with your industries or education team: workshop space (Lowdham runs in 2,000 sq ft), security and tool-control requirements, cohort size — typically six Makers.
set up
Jigs, tooling and materials installed — a one-time setup, typically £7–10k depending on your workshop.
train your team
We train your instructors and workshop staff to deliver the course themselves — at HMP Lowdham Grange three Makers have been trained as peer instructors. The capability stays in-house, with no ongoing fees.
deliver & accredit
Repeatable six-week cohorts, budgeted around £8,500 each including materials and OCN Level 2 accreditation.
family visit day
Each cohort ends with Makers presenting the balance bikes they built to their own children — the bike goes home.
BUDGET GUIDE
what it costs — in grant-budget terms.
Reoffending costs the public purse £40,000+ per person per year (MoJ). Against that, the numbers below are small — and cohorts at existing sites have been grant-funded in full or in part. We'll help you make the case.
~£180
per kit
One balance-bike kit — the build each Maker completes and gives away.
~£8,500
per cohort
Materials, delivery support and accreditation for one six-week cohort.
£7–10k
workshop setup
One-time capex: jigs, tooling and workshop fit-out, scoped to your space.
~£45k
full site-year
A year of cohorts at one site — the envelope a funder or governor can plan around.
Figures are indicative and depend on your workshop, cohort size and delivery pattern. We'll scope yours with you.
SECURITY & SAFEGUARDING
built for the environment it runs in.
The programme has been shaped inside working prisons, with industries and security teams — not adapted afterwards.
Enhanced-DBS facilitators, vetted for prison delivery
Designed around prison workshop security and tool-control requirements
Safeguarding-first: participants are never identified in our materials
Public-liability insured
OCN London accredited course, with portfolio evidence for every Maker
HOW TO COMMISSION
three ways to bring it in.
Whichever route fits your site, it starts with a conversation and a workshop visit.
DIRECT
commission directly
For Learning & Skills Managers and Heads of Reducing Reoffending: a conversation and a site visit is the usual start.
VIA YOUR PROVIDER
through your education prime
We deliver alongside prison education providers — bring us in under your existing provision.
FUNDED
with a funder
Cohorts at existing sites have been grant-funded. We'll help you build the funding case for yours.
Innovative projects, such as Build to Bond, support rehabilitation and help cut reoffending.
— LORD TIMPSON, PRISONS MINISTER
HMP Lowdham Grange · HMP Foston Hall · HMP Lindholme · HMYOI Feltham
WORKING WITH
HM Prison & Probation Service
Ministry of Justice
HMP Lowdham Grange
Build to Bond is supported by The National Lottery Community Fund.
NEXT STEP
talk to us about your site.
Tell us about your workshop space and your cohort, and we'll come back with a scoped plan and budget you can take to your governor or funder.
Start a conversation →
Email info@bamboobicycleclub.org
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025