# /pages/our-story-2 @390
title: About Bamboo Bicycle Club — Our Story
height: 10128
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 21px
type p: 14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type .rd-lbl: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Our Story
OUR STORY
it started with one frame and a stubborn idea.
That anyone — given the right tools and a bit of belief — can build a bicycle. Today, that idea is changing lives.
THE IDEA
we believe building things is powerful.
In 2012, design engineers James Marr and Ian McMillan opened a small workshop in Hackney with a single goal: prove that anyone can build a bicycle frame. They started with bamboo — a fast-growing grass you can shape with hand tools.
What began as a maker's hobby became something bigger. Today the same craft runs inside prisons, schools and community workshops — turning a bike into a route to skills, confidence and a second chance.
If we want people to choose sustainable options, we need to offer something better than what polluting products can be.
— JAMES MARR, FOUNDER
THE JOURNEY
fourteen years, one through-line.
Every chapter widened who gets to build — and the mission grew naturally out of the craft, not bolted on beside it.
2012
a workshop in hackney
Design engineers James Marr and Ian McMillan open the UK's first bamboo bike workshop. Within months, hundreds of people are building their own frames.
2015
the design museum, and kits worldwide
Featured in the Cycle Revolution exhibition at London's Design Museum. The home-build kit ships internationally — builders make frames at their kitchen tables, backed by video tutorials.
2018
kevin mccloud's green heroes
Selected at Grand Designs Live, ExCeL London, as one of Kevin McCloud's Green Heroes for sustainable design.
2024
a social enterprise is born
Bamboo Mobility Project CIC is registered — the social enterprise delivering OCN-accredited courses in sustainable manufacturing inside prisons and schools.
2025
build to bond, and a breakthrough year
Our accredited frame-building course runs inside prisons, with the most engaged learners building a balance bike for their own child. The Financial Times profiles the work and the Prisons Minister names it directly; the Investec Beyond Business award follows.
Now
one engine for change
The shop and the mission run as one Community Interest Company — where every build helps fund a place on an accredited skills course.
HOW WE'RE BUILT
a shop and a mission, one engine.
We're a Community Interest Company — not a charity with a gift shop. The money flows in one loop.
You build
a bamboo bike · from £375
→
Profits fund
skills courses
→
A life changes
skills & family
Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
WHAT WE STAND FOR
three things we won't compromise.
01
craft over consumption
A bike you build yourself is a bike you never throw away. We teach making, not buying.
02
grown, not mined
Bamboo regrows in 3–5 years and recycles fully. Sustainability is the material, not the marketing.
03
open to everyone
From weekend workshops to prisons and schools, our goal is to put making within reach of people who'd never otherwise get the chance.
RECOGNISED BY
…and featured in 40+ publications — see all coverage →
RECOGNITION & EXHIBITIONS
4,000+
people have built a bike
SINCE 2012
90%
prison course completion
BBC PROGRAMME RECORDS
3,500+
frames built
SINCE 2012
45
countries reached
KITS SHIPPED WORLDWIDE
JOIN IN
be part of the next chapter.
Build a bike, bring a programme to your institution, or back the mission.
Book a build →
See our impact
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025