# /pages/impact-report @390
title: Impact Report 2026 – Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 8965
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 21px
type p: 14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type .rd-lbl: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Impact
/
Impact report
IMPACT REPORT · JULY 2026
what a year of building changed.
Bamboo Mobility Project CIC is the social-enterprise arm of Bamboo Bicycle Club: accredited hands-on engineering in schools, youth settings and prisons, funded by the bikes our community builds. This is an honest interim account of where the work stands — what we can evidence, what we're building, and what we don't claim.
THE NUMBERS WE STAND BEHIND
90%
prison course completion
BBC PROGRAMME RECORDS
4
active prison sites
WITH HMPPS
26%
measured rise in participant confidence
PROGRAMME EVALUATION
4,000+
builders worldwide since 2012
45 COUNTRIES
WHY IT MATTERS
the national picture we work against.
Nationally, just 20% of prison-leavers are in work six weeks after release (MoJ offender employment outcomes, 2024–25), and the proven reoffending rate is almost 30% (MoJ, 2024). The strongest published levers are employment and family ties — people in prison who maintain family relationships are 39% less likely to reoffend (Lord Farmer Review, 2017). Both of our programmes are built around that evidence.
THE WORK
one craft, two arms.
REHABILITATION
build to bond — prisons
A six-week bamboo bike-building course inside prison workshops. Makers earn an OCN Level 2 in Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing and finish by presenting the balance bike they built to their own child on family visit day. Live at HMP Lowdham Grange, HMP Foston Hall, HMP Lindholme and HMYOI Feltham, on a self-delivery model that trains staff and peer instructors to run the workshop.
PREVENTION
make engineers — schools & youth
Curriculum-mapped engineering programmes for ages 11–19, from a free bamboo-speaker taster to a rideable bamboo gravel frame — with an optional OCN Level 1 Award in Practical Manufacturing Skills. 1,500+ young people reached to date through builds, tasters and talks.
HMP Lowdham Grange · HMP Foston Hall · HMP Lindholme · HMYOI Feltham
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH HM PRISON & PROBATION SERVICE
RECOGNITION
what others say about the work.
“Innovative projects, such as Build to Bond, support rehabilitation and help cut reoffending.”
Lord Timpson, Prisons Minister
“A truly inspiring cohort, delivering meaningful impact in the community.”
Ruth Leas, CEO, Investec Bank · Investec Beyond Business 2025
Build to Bond is supported by The National Lottery Community Fund. Bamboo Bicycle Club is an Investec Beyond Business 2025 winner.
HONEST MEASUREMENT
what we measure — and what we don't claim.
We track course completion (90%, BBC programme records), accredited qualifications for every cohort — OCN Level 2 (Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing) in prisons, OCN Level 1 Award (Practical Manufacturing Skills) in schools — and participant confidence, which rose a measured 26% across evaluated cohorts (programme evaluation). We do not publish outcome claims we cannot evidence: no return-on-investment figures, no reoffending attribution. Where our numbers improve on the national picture, we say so with sources; where we don't yet know, we say that too.
THE YEAR AHEAD
what we're building next.
codify delivery
Turn Build to Bond into a fully documented, turnkey programme — session plans, worksheets and instructor training — so new sites can run it without us in the room.
measure what matters
Introduce a simple pre/post participant measure across both arms, so next year's report can show change in confidence and skills — not just completion.
follow makers beyond the gate
Build the follow-up that tells us what happens after release and after school — progression into work, education and training.
help write next year's report.
Fund a cohort, commission the programme, or build a bike that funds a Maker's place.
Back the mission →
For prisons & commissioners
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025