# / @390
title: Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 14987
type h1: 44.85px
type h2: 24px,35.2px,46.8px
type h3: 18px,21px
type p: 12.5px,12px,14px,16px,17px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type button: 11px,12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
build bikes · build skills · build futures
more than a bike.
a way forward.
Every bike built here funds accredited skills programmes — in schools and inside prisons.
Build a bike →
See our impact
A social enterprise CIC · enhanced-DBS facilitators · public-liability insured
HAND-BUILT BAMBOO · LUGGED BY HAND
three ways in
learn to build a bike.
Whether you want a bike of your own or a programme for the people you work with, it starts the same way.
INDIVIDUALS
want to build your own?
Kits and workshops for complete beginners — most builders have never made anything before.
browse kits →
PRISONS
commissioning for a prison?
Build to Bond — an OCN Level 2 course your own staff deliver, ending on family visit day.
see the prison programme →
SCHOOLS
running a school or college?
Real engineering in your classroom. Start with the free Speaker build, add OCN Level 1 when students want more.
see the schools programme →
team days
unique team building day
Your team spends a day cutting, shaping and binding raw bamboo into frames that actually ride — and takes them home. Real making, not a trust fall. And every event funds the accredited skills programmes we run inside prisons and schools.
book a team day
how it works
our impact and who we support
The workshops fund the mission — directly.
You build
a bamboo bike · from £375
→
Profits fund
accredited skills courses
→
A life changes
skills · family · futures
why bamboo
the most accessible material to build a bike.
Grown, not manufactured — it earns its place four ways.
4,000+
builders trained
45
countries
80%
built outside the UK
simple hand tools
A file, a saw, some sandpaper — everything else comes in the kit.
no experience needed
Most builders have never made anything before. We guide every step.
any age, anywhere
Built at kitchen tables in 45 countries, by people of all ages.
built to last
Light, strong and it soaks up the road. These bikes get ridden hard.
See how a build works →
proven on the road
bamboo soaks up the road — riders and reviewers agree.
Not just our word. National press, pro reviewers and ten-year riders all land on the same thing: it rides beautifully.
GCN REVIEW
Global Cycling Network puts a bamboo bike to the test: “Are bamboo bikes actually any good?”
Global Cycling Network
Watch the film
→
Bamboo naturally dampens vibration, allowing the smoothest ride.
The Guardian
A really, really comfortable ride — smooth but not too flexy.
Kate Rawles · BikeRadar
Taro still rides the same frame after 10 years of daily commuting.
Builder story
Read his story
→
build at home
frame kits, shipped worldwide.
All frame kits →
road & gravel
Lugged or flax-joined kits with full video tutorials.
mountain
Burly geometries for 27.5" and 29er builds.
balance bikes
The little build — and the one gifted in Build to Bond.
components & tools
Jigs, lugs, glue and everything for the maker shop.
watch a real build
from bare bamboo to the open road.
One kit, one pair of hands — the whole build, from a box of raw bamboo to a frame you can ride.
watch the full build · 29 min
Julian’s full gravel build, start to finish — filmed by builder Julian Goulding
as seen in & recognised by
❙❙
“Taps into 'the IKEA effect' — that extra bit of affection people reserve for objects they put together themselves.”
FINANCIAL TIMES
“Going to the workshop was hands-down one of the best things I have ever done.”
STUART HERITAGE, THE GUARDIAN
“The material provides natural suspension.”
CNN MONEY, QUOTING CO-FOUNDER JAMES MARR
“Cycling record holder Kate Strong in bamboo bike ride challenge.”
BBC NEWS, 2023
“Pandas eat it. Schoolchildren used to be caned with it. But now prisoners at Lowdham Grange have found a surprising new use for bamboo.”
INSIDE TIME
“Si meets with Emily Chappell, the creator of this amazing bamboo bike, to hear why your next bike should be made from bamboo.”
GLOBAL CYCLING NETWORK
“To get one of these bamboo beauties you go on a two-day course to make your own.”
GREGOR MACGREGOR, BIKERADAR
“The Bamboo Bicycle Club has impressively improved the accessibility of building a bamboo bicycle.”
ROAD.CC
“Taps into 'the IKEA effect' — that extra bit of affection people reserve for objects they put together themselves.”
FINANCIAL TIMES
“Going to the workshop was hands-down one of the best things I have ever done.”
STUART HERITAGE, THE GUARDIAN
“The material provides natural suspension.”
CNN MONEY, QUOTING CO-FOUNDER JAMES MARR
“Cycling record holder Kate Strong in bamboo bike ride challenge.”
BBC NEWS, 2023
“Pandas eat it. Schoolchildren used to be caned with it. But now prisoners at Lowdham Grange have found a surprising new use for bamboo.”
INSIDE TIME
“Si meets with Emily Chappell, the creator of this amazing bamboo bike, to hear why your next bike should be made from bamboo.”
GLOBAL CYCLING NETWORK
“To get one of these bamboo beauties you go on a two-day course to make your own.”
GREGOR MACGREGOR, BIKERADAR
“The Bamboo Bicycle Club has impressively improved the accessibility of building a bamboo bicycle.”
ROAD.CC
read the coverage →
join in
build it. ride it. pass it on.
Build, partner or fund — you become part of the loop.
Book a build →
Work with us
Support the mission
bamboo bicycle club
build bikes. build skills. build futures.*
one craft. one engine for change.
* we use bamboo bike-building to give practical skills and a way forward to people locked out of education — in schools before exclusion, and in prisons after.
build a bike
our impact
why bamboo →
stories →
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025