# /pages/support-mission @390
title: Back the mission – Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 9821
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 21px
type p: 14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Back the mission
BACK THE MISSION
a qualification earned at the bench.
Most people leave prison with nothing to show for it. Our Makers finish an accredited build — skills that go home even when the bike can't. Funded by the bikes we sell, and by people like you.
Read how it works ↓
Fund the work
The problem we work on
Most prison education is a worksheet. Ours is a workbench. We teach fabrication with hand tools, and every course finishes with something you can hold.
£40,000+
what a year in prison costs the public — MoJ published figures
one build. three things change.
Every programme runs on the same spine: a real bike, built by hand, start to finish.
education
OCN-accredited courses at Level 1 and Level 2 — proper qualifications, earned with tools in hand.
employment
Skills the labour market is short of — fabrication, finishing, tolerances — plus peer instructors trained from within the programme.
rehabilitation
Build to Bond Makers build a balance bike for their own child — family contact is one of the strongest factors in staying out, and the bike is the bridge.
Our numbers
90%+
of Makers complete the course
across every cohort to date
3
prison sites running
more sites onboarding with HMPPS — we count only what's live
Figures from our own programme records, July 2026. We publish how we count.
One Maker's story
“The bike was the first thing I ever made with my own hands. When my daughter rode it on family visit day, I felt like a dad again.”
— A Build to Bond Maker
We never name our Makers alongside the prisons they're in. Their stories are theirs.
where the money goes
bamboo bicycle club ltd
The commercial side — kits, workshops and team-building days.
10% of profits
→
bamboo mobility project CIC
The social side — accredited skills programmes in prisons and schools. Community interest company no. 16257348, asset-locked.
Why a CIC and not a charity?
What does grant funding pay for that sales don't?
Can we see the accounts?
fund the work
Each option is costed from live programme budgets. Pick a size and we'll show you what it runs.
~£180
one kit
Puts a frame kit and tools on one Maker's bench for a full build.
Fund a kit
~£8,500
a full cohort
Six Makers through a complete accredited programme — instructor, coordinator, kits, materials, and the assessment at the end.
Fund a cohort
~£7–10k
a workshop, kitted out
Benches, jigs and tools for a new site — one-off capital that stays with the prison permanently, whatever happens next.
Fund a workshop
~£45k
a site, for a year
Four cohorts, twenty-four Makers, one prison workshop running all year.
Talk to James
Larger grants are scoped with you — every proposal comes itemised, and you get outcome reporting each quarter.
Backing and coverage
“A truly inspiring cohort, delivering meaningful impact in the community.”
— Ruth Leas, CEO, Investec Bank · Investec Beyond Business 2025
Investec
Beyond Business 2025 — £24,000, chosen from 148 applicants
London South Bank University
£70,000 equipment partnership
Financial Times
"How Bamboo Bicycle Club is helping to break the prison cycle" — Sept 2025
start a conversation
No pitch deck needed. Tell us who you are and what you'd like to back, and James will come back to you within two working days.
Talk to James about funding →
Support the work
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025