# /pages/impact @390
title: Our Impact — Bikes That Fund Change | Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 17443
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 21px
type p: 14px,16px,17px,18px,19px,20px,24px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type .rd-lbl: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Impact
build bikes · build skills · build futures
building bikes. rebuilding lives.
We use bamboo bike-building to give practical skills and a way forward to people locked out of education — in schools before exclusion, and in prisons after.
Partner with us →
Back the mission
start here
book a discovery call.
One short call. Tell us whether it is a school, a prison, a team day or your own build, and we will point you the right way.
book a discovery call →
build or own a bike →
run it in your school or prison →
fund or champion →
ON THIS PAGE
the proof
the evidence
where we work
who backs it
the record since 2012
90%+
prison course completion
BBC PROGRAMME RECORDS
Level 2
OCN — Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing
OCN LONDON ACCREDITED
4,000+
people have built a bike
SINCE 2012
45
countries reached
KITS SHIPPED WORLDWIDE
Data updated July 2026
Read the 2026 impact report →
Read the 2026 impact report →
what we do
real skills, taught through bike-building
stem education one mission, two pathways
in schools · before exclusion
make engineers
for SEND, PRU and at-risk young people being pushed out of the classroom often their first positive encounter with engineering.
taster session
one day, in school
short course, real build
weeks, not years
OCN Level 1 accredited
a first recognised qualification
warm hand-off
to college or training
bring it to your school →
in prisons · after
build to bond
for people inside prison rebuilding skills, family ties and a route to work on release.
join the workshop course
six weeks inside
OCN Level 2 accredited
a qualification that leaves with you
build a bike for your child
the bike goes home
become a peer instructor
teach the next cohort
link to work on release
a route back in
commission a programme →
vocational skills and pathways into careers — built through hands-on engineering
hands-on engineering and STEAM learning
why now
both pathways sit on live national priorities.
9pts
off reoffending when education happens inside
MOJ EDUCATION EVIDENCE
39%
less likely to reoffend with family contact maintained
MOJ FAMILY-CONTACT DATA
CASE STUDY
The bamboo bike course offers more than just technical training — it provides an avenue for creativity, teamwork, and self-expression. Watching the pride on a father’s face when he presents a bike to his child is something special.
Sally Allsopp, Industries Manager, HMP Lowdham Grange
How a six-week bamboo-bike course is rebuilding family ties inside HMP Lowdham Grange. Running — and oversubscribed — since late 2024.
6 weeks × 18 hours
OCN Level 2
26% measured confidence uplift
3 Makers → peer instructors
Build to Bond · HMP Lowdham Grange
Read the full story
→
as reported in Financial Times · Inside Time · Investec Beyond Business
every kind of impact
real projects, real impact
The same craft shows up everywhere — on epic journeys, in boardrooms, in classrooms and across the world.
all
education
community
global
prisons
watch the film
EDUCATION
A 100kg-payload electric cargo bike, built by masters students.
Real engineering in a university lab — the same craft, scaled up.
UCL project write-up
masters students built a 100kg electric bamboo cargo bike.
Read the story
→
watch the film
COMMUNITY
Built in one corporate team day — donated onward.
The commercial side funding the mission — before a bike is even finished.
the full story
balance bikes, built at a team day, donated to a community project.
Read the story
→
watch the film
GLOBAL
Skills transfer, not aid: local people learn to make and maintain their own bikes.
NTV Kenya coverage
teaching kenya to build — the knowledge stays behind.
Read the story
→
PRISONS
Beyond Business 2025 winner — one of four chosen from 148 applicants.
“reconnects excluded learners with education… pathways into further study, employment or enterprise”
INVESTEC, PUBLISHED AWARD RATIONALE
2025·the award coverage
investec backs the excluded-learners model
Read the story
→
EDUCATION
24 young people and 4 trainers trained — Urumuri’s figure.
A partnership with Swiss association Urumuri teaching young Rwandans bicycle trades — the skills stay local.
2024·Partner: Urumuri
training trainers in Bugesera, Rwanda
Read the story
→
COMMUNITY
An environmental educator builds ‘Erica’ over 4.5 days at the Canning Town workshop.
“we think that building things is a mythical thing that only geniuses can do… every step was actually simple and achievable”
SORAYA, ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATOR
2019·her build story
soraya’s four-and-a-half-day build
Read the story
→
56 independently verifiable case studies on file — these are six.
See all impact stories →
❙❙
←
→
what the impact sounds like
“The bike was the first thing I ever made with my own hands. When my daughter rode it on family visit day, I felt like a dad again.”
Maker, Build to Bond
“Pandas eat it. Schoolchildren used to be caned with it. But now prisoners at Lowdham Grange have found a surprising new use for bamboo — making bicycles out of it.”
Inside Time · prisoners' national newspaper, 100k+ readers
“Bamboo bikes have that cool factor that excites them. There's maths and English in the programme — but it's built into design, creativity and bike mechanics.”
James Marr, Founder · in Inside Time
“The bike was the first thing I ever made with my own hands. When my daughter rode it on family visit day, I felt like a dad again.”
Maker, Build to Bond
“Pandas eat it. Schoolchildren used to be caned with it. But now prisoners at Lowdham Grange have found a surprising new use for bamboo — making bicycles out of it.”
Inside Time · prisoners' national newspaper, 100k+ readers
“Bamboo bikes have that cool factor that excites them. There's maths and English in the programme — but it's built into design, creativity and bike mechanics.”
James Marr, Founder · in Inside Time
where we operate
where we work.
Standing programmes in UK prisons, schools and universities, monthly workshops in London, and partner hubs in Europe.
4
active prison sites
10
schools & universities
3
international hubs
45
countries reached
✱ every country our kits have reached since 2012 — straight from our customer records. home in dark green.
In partnership with HM Prison & Probation Service, Camden Council, Project Zero, LSBU
ocn accredited · cic · since 2012
who we work with
who this is for — and who backs it.
Kit and workshop revenue covers our costs — funder money goes straight to programme delivery.
Finding employment after release reduces the chance of reoffending significantly, which is why we are improving opportunities to help prisoners turn their lives around.
LORD TIMPSON, UK PRISONS MINISTER — INSIDE TIME
schools
running a school or college?
Real engineering in your classroom. Start with the free Speaker build, then add OCN Level 1 when your students want more.
see the schools programme →see the evidence ↓
prisons
commissioning for a prison?
An OCN Level 2 course your own staff deliver. 90%+ completion, and the capability stays in-house with no ongoing fees.
see the prison programme →see the evidence ↓
corporate
planning a team day?
Your team builds real bamboo bikes and takes them home — and every event funds the prison programme.
see team days →see the evidence ↓
individuals
want to build your own?
Kits and workshops for complete beginners. Most builders have never made anything before.
browse kits →see the evidence ↓
✱ Kit and workshop revenue covers our running costs — funder money goes to programme delivery. see for yourself →
✱ Every course leads to a recognised qualification — OCN Level 1 accredited in schools, OCN Level 2 accredited in prisons. see for yourself →
✱ Funders get completions, OCN awards and session data each term. see for yourself →
report
the 2026 impact report
Web report · the numbers, the evidence, the stories · 5-minute read
read it →
featured in
…and featured in 40+ publications — see all coverage →
backed by & accredited by
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025