# /pages/bicycleteambuilding @390
title: Bamboo Bike Team Building Days | Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 11304
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 21px
type p: 13px,14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Team Building
CORPORATE TEAM BUILDING · WITH A PURPOSE
your team builds a real bamboo bike — together.
Your people cut, shape and bind raw bamboo into a frame that actually rides. Then, if you like, the finished bikes go to a community charity. A proper team day that leaves something behind.
Request a quote →
How it works
5–50+
people per team day
3 hrs–full day
flexible format
Your venue
UK-wide, or come to us
No experience
needed — we guide every step
Indoor / outdoor
we bring the workshop
Donate the bikes
to a community charity
Fewer than five people? Join an open build weekend instead → Five or more — request a quote below.
THE REAL THING
a real bike. not a flat-pack kit.
Most “build-a-bike” days bolt together a children’s kit in an hour. On ours, your team works raw bamboo — cutting, mitring, binding and finishing — into a frame that genuinely rides.
A proper hands-on engineering challenge that needs the whole team
Every step guided by our facilitators — no DIY skill required
You finish the day with a real, rideable bamboo bike
Run it at your office, an away-day venue, or our London workshop
Cut, mitre, bind, finish — a frame made by hand, by your team.
CHOOSE YOUR BUILD DAY
two ways to build together.
HALF OR FULL DAY · CSR FAVOURITE
balance bike build day
Small teams each build a children's balance bike from raw bamboo — then donate them to a community charity on your behalf, the way one company's builds went to Upcycle in Brixton.
All tools, materials and facilitators included
5–50+ people — your venue, an away-day space, or our London workshop
One bike per team of 3–4, finished in a session
Donation to a community charity arranged by us
Priced by team size — quote within one working day
Request a quote →
FULL DAY · THE FLAGSHIP
full frame build day
Your team builds full-size bamboo bicycle frames that genuinely ride — cutting, mitring, binding and finishing, guided every step. The day The Macallan's team built ten.
Expert facilitation, all materials and safety kit
One rideable frame per team of 3–5
Finished frames to keep, raffle internally, or donate
Runs at your venue or our London workshop
From £595 per person
Request a quote →
BUILD IT, THEN GIVE IT AWAY
The best team day you’ll do all year — and a bike for a child who needs one.
We're a social enterprise: the fee for your day funds our accredited skills work in schools and prisons. And the bikes your team makes can be donated to a community charity — one company built balance bikes that went to Upcycle, a Brixton charity getting more children cycling.
Request a quote →
ACCOUNTABLE & INSURED
a team day you can stand behind.
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · BAMBOO MOBILITY PROJECT CIC
ENHANCED-DBS FACILITATORS
PUBLIC-LIABILITY INSURED
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025
REQUEST A QUOTE
tell us team size and a rough date. we do the rest.
tell us the basics
Team size and a rough month — nothing else needed yet.
quote within one working day
A scoped plan and price you can forward internally.
we bring the workshop
Your office, an away-day venue, or our London workshop.
build, ride, hand over
A real bike your team made — ride it or donate it.
Company
Work email
Team size
5–10
11–20
21–50
50+
Rough date
Anything else? (optional)
Request a quote →
We reply within one working day. No obligation, no spam.
BRING IT TO YOUR TEAM
let’s build something your team will remember.
Tell us your team size, a rough date and your venue — we’ll send a proper quote within one working day. Materials, facilitation and the charity handover are all included.
Request a quote →
Email us
A TEAM DAY
watch a team build a bike together
Real bamboo, real tools, one finished bike — and the option to donate it to a community charity.
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025