# /pages/programmes @390
title: Programmes – Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 12837
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 18px,21px
type p: 14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Programmes
OUR PROGRAMMES
accredited bike-building programmes for schools and prisons.
We turn bike-building into recognised skills — a free STEM build for schools, and an OCN Level 2 course you run inside your own prison workshop. Both start with a conversation.
start a conversation →
for schools
for prisons
4,000+
people trained since 2012
90%
prison course completion — BBC records
OCN L1 & L2
accredited in schools and prisons
4
active prison sites
TWO WAYS IN, ONE CRAFT
prevention in schools, rehabilitation in prisons.
The same hands-on bike build, shaped for two audiences — reaching young people before exclusion, and adults inside on a route back to work.
IN SCHOOLS · BEFORE EXCLUSION
make engineers
A free bamboo-speaker STEM build for schools and colleges — OCN Level 1 when you build up. Teachers run it; no engineering background needed.
for schools →
IN PRISONS · AFTER
build to bond
An OCN Level 2 accredited course you run in your own workshop — we set up and train your staff, no ongoing fees. Ends on family visit day.
for prisons & commissioners →
IN SCHOOLS · MAKE ENGINEERS
start free. build up when your students ask for more.
The Speaker build is the front door: a complete STEM project at no cost, curriculum-linked, that any teacher can run. When students want more, it grows into an OCN Level 1 accredited programme.
the free speaker build
A complete STEM project at no cost — students design and build a working bamboo speaker, start to finish.
no engineering background needed
Teachers run it whether or not they've held a saw. Everything to deliver it is provided; you bring the class.
build up to OCN Level 1
When students want more, the free build grows into an accredited programme — recognised skills and a real qualification.
most schools run it fully funded
The Speaker is free so you can prove it works before you ask for a budget — and most paid programmes run on funding we help you find.
enquire for your school →
IN PRISONS · BUILD TO BOND
self-delivery: we set up, we train, you run it.
Built for prison industries and education teams. We install the workshop, train your staff to deliver the course, and support your first cohorts — then the capability stays in-house, with no ongoing fees.
scope
A site visit with your industries or education team: workshop space, security and tool-control requirements, cohort size.
set up
Jigs, tooling and materials installed — a one-time setup, typically £7–10k depending on your workshop.
train your team
We train your instructors and workshop staff to deliver the course themselves — the capability stays in-house, with no ongoing fees.
deliver & accredit
Repeatable six-week cohorts, budgeted around £8,500 each including materials and OCN Level 2 accreditation.
family visit day
Each cohort ends with Makers presenting the balance bikes they built to their own children — the bike goes home.
BUDGET GUIDE
what it costs — in grant-budget terms.
Indicative figures to build a funding case around. Cohorts at existing sites have been grant-funded in full or in part — we'll help you make the case.
~£180
per kit
One balance-bike kit — the build each Maker completes and gives away.
~£8,500
per cohort
Materials, delivery support and accreditation for one six-week cohort.
£7–10k
workshop setup
One-time capex: jigs, tooling and workshop fit-out, scoped to your space.
~£45k
full site-year
A year of cohorts at one site — the envelope a funder or governor can plan around.
Figures are indicative and depend on your workshop, cohort size and delivery pattern. We'll scope yours with you.
SECURITY & SAFEGUARDING
built for the environment it runs in.
The programme has been shaped inside working prisons, with industries and security teams — not adapted afterwards.
Enhanced-DBS facilitators, vetted for prison delivery
Designed around prison workshop security and tool-control requirements
Safeguarding-first: participants are never identified in our materials
Public-liability insured
OCN London accredited, with portfolio evidence for every Maker
HOW TO COMMISSION
three ways to bring it in.
Whichever route fits your site, it starts with a conversation and a workshop visit.
DIRECT
commission directly
For Learning & Skills Managers and Heads of Reducing Reoffending: a conversation and a site visit is the usual start.
VIA YOUR PROVIDER
through your education prime
We deliver alongside prison education providers — bring us in under your existing provision.
FUNDED
with a funder
Cohorts at existing sites have been grant-funded. We'll help you build the funding case for yours.
Innovative projects, such as Build to Bond, support rehabilitation and help cut reoffending.
— LORD TIMPSON, PRISONS MINISTER
HMP Lowdham Grange · HMP Foston Hall · HMP Lindholme · HMYOI Feltham
Build to Bond is supported by The National Lottery Community Fund.
NEXT STEP
tell us about your school or your site.
A short conversation is all it takes to start. Tell us who you are and what you'd like to run, and we'll come back with a scoped plan and budget you can take to your governor, head or funder.
start a conversation →
email us
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025