# /pages/theory-of-change @390
title: Theory of Change – Bamboo Bicycle Club
height: 7821
type h1: 46.8px
type h2: 24px,42.9px
type h3: 21px
type p: 14px,16px,18px,19px,20px
type .rd-eyebrow: 14px
type .rd-lbl: 14px
type button: 12px,14px,15px,18px
type .rd-btn: 15px
--- text ---
Cookie consent
We and our partners, including Shopify, use cookies and other technologies to personalize your experience, show you ads, and perform analytics, and we will not use cookies or other technologies for these purposes unless you accept them. Learn more in our Privacy Policy
Manage preferences
Accept
Decline
Skip to content
Skip to content
Menu
Kits
Workshops
Basket
Menu
Home
/
Impact
/
Theory of change
THEORY OF CHANGE
how a bike changes a life.
We use bamboo bike-building to give practical skills and a way forward to people locked out of education — in schools before exclusion, and in prisons after. Same spine, two settings.
THE PROBLEM, IN NATIONAL NUMBERS
20%
of prison-leavers are in work six weeks after release
MOJ OFFENDER EMPLOYMENT OUTCOMES, 2024–25
~30%
national proven reoffending rate
MOJ PROVEN REOFFENDING STATISTICS, 2024
39%
lower reoffending when family ties are maintained
MOJ RESEARCH · LORD FARMER REVIEW, 2017
ONE CRAFT, TWO ARMS
prevention and rehabilitation, from the same workbench.
PREVENTION
make engineers — schools & youth
Curriculum-mapped, OCN-accredited engineering programmes for ages 11–19: from a working bamboo speaker to a rideable bamboo bike. Real making that reaches young people — including those the system is failing — before the justice system does.
For schools →
REHABILITATION
build to bond — prisons
A six-week bamboo bike-building course inside prison workshops. Makers earn an OCN Level 2 in Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing and finish by giving the bike they built to their own child on family visit day.
For prisons & commissioners →
HOW CHANGE HAPPENS
from bamboo to a changed trajectory.
input
A workshop, bamboo, tools and a trained instructor — in a school, a community space or a prison industries workshop. Funded by kit and workshop sales, grants and partners.
activity
Hands-on building: measuring, mitring, bonding and finishing a real bamboo frame. No prior experience — the craft is the teacher.
output
A finished bike, a portfolio of work, and a recognised OCN qualification — Level 1 Award (Practical Manufacturing Skills) in schools, Level 2 (Workshop Skills and Sustainable Manufacturing) in prisons.
outcome
Skills that map to real trades, confidence built by making something that works — and, inside prison, a family bond strengthened when the bike goes home with a Maker's child.
impact
Better routes into work, education and training — and a contribution to the two levers the evidence says matter most on release: employment and family ties. We contribute to these outcomes; we don't claim them alone.
HONEST MEASUREMENT
what we measure — and what we don't claim.
We track course completion (90%, BBC programme records) and accredited qualifications for every cohort. We do not claim credit for reduced reoffending — that outcome belongs to many hands. Our programmes are built around the published evidence: family ties and employment on release are two of the strongest levers the research identifies.
BE PART OF IT
fund it, run it, or bring it to your school.
Back the mission →
For prisons
For schools
Bamboo Bicycle Club
Build your own bamboo bicycle. Workshops in London, kits shipped worldwide. Every build funds skills inside prisons and schools.
info@bamboobicycleclub.org · London, UK
BUILD
Home-build kits
Which kit is right for me?
Road
Gravel & adventure
Mountain
Balance bikes
Workshops
MISSION
Our impact
Impact report
Build to Bond
Schools & education
Back the mission
Why bamboo
News & stories
HELP
Support centre
Contact us
FAQs
COMPANY
Our story
Team building
Gallery
join 4,000+ builders
One story a month — workshops, kits, and what your builds make possible. No spam, unsubscribe anytime.
Subscribe
One craft. One engine for change.
bamboo bicycle club
© 2026 Bamboo Bicycle Club · Bamboo Mobility Project CIC · Reg 16257348
OCN ACCREDITED
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE · CIC
SECURE CHECKOUT
INVESTEC BEYOND BUSINESS 2025